The world's most dangerous path.
The world's most unreliable, the world's deadliest.
That and much more is this.
This is El Caminito Del Rey, near Malaga,
south of Spain.
And this was once the world's most dangerous path
or something in that direction.
It was built between 1901 and 1905 by sailors and prisoners,
who were accustomed to the high work,
or had no choice.
It was used to move between two hydro-electric power stations,
which apparently already existed in Spain in 1900.
I was also surprised.
They called it El Caminito Del Rey, the path of the king,
after King Alfonso XIII walked about it
But that was not how it looked at that time.
It was only a bit of metal in stones at 45 degrees
with some concrete on it.
And maybe a safety thread with it,
but for today it was not safe.
And later the path was no longer used
and expired
and eventually it fell apart.
But thrill seekers continued.
When the internet announced the path,
people came from here and there
to walk this tapped, but just safe, path.
The web is full of photos from 2005 or 2006
in which people hold on to safety threads and walk on narrow metal chunks
to go to the next piece.
But it does not look like that anymore.
People died again and again,
with one person per so many years.
And eventually the local government decided it was enough.
They closed it.
But that worsened it.
Because now thrill seekers wanted to walk the most dangerous path
what was forbidden.
Finally, a solution was found: building a new path,
on the old path,
so that the contemporary public would be safe.
There are now safety helmets,
handrails, wires,
a guard who checks on tickets
and wi-fi and toilets.
And you know what? It's working.
It is still sensational, but also safe.
Now many more people can experience this beautiful place and view.
But online?
There it is still the most dangerous path.
There are still those blog posts from 2000
and those old photos and old YouTube videos that say:
"This is still dangerous and frightening."
And nobody on the internet checks that for a while,
so everyone is still sharing it.
But it is no longer that dangerous.
It used to be like base jumping,
only for the real daredevils,
the adrenalin addicts ... but now?
Now there are tourists who are not afraid of heights.
That seems better to me.
Even though the clickbait is no longer true,
a lot of people can now enjoy a great place.
Translation: Mr. Apricot